#  Fall 2018

> Note: this is considered....not the most useful or representative exam of all time.

## 1

We'll show a stronger statement: $f(x) = \frac 1 x$ is uniformly continuous on any interval of the form $(c, \infty)$ where $c > 0$.

We can use that fact that $x, y > c \implies xy > c^2 \implies \frac{1}{xy} < \frac 1 {c^{2}}$.

Letting $\varepsilon$ be arbitrary, choose $\delta < \varepsilon c^2$.
Then
\begin{align*}
\abs{f(x) - f(y)}
&= \abs{\frac 1 x - \frac 1 y} \\
&= \frac{\abs{x-y}}{xy} \\
&\leq \frac{\delta}{xy} \\
&< \frac{\delta}{c^2} \\
&< \varepsilon
,\end{align*}

which shows uniform continuity since $\delta$ does not depend on $x$ or $y$.

To see that $f$ is not uniformly continuous when $c=0$, let $\varepsilon < 1$ be arbitrary.

Let $x_n = \frac 1 n$.
Then choose $n$ large enough such that $\abs{x_n - x_{n+1}} = \frac 1 n - \frac 1 {n+1} < \delta$.
Then just note that $f(x_n) = n$ and thus $\abs{f(x_n) - f(x_{n+1})} = n - (n+1) = 1 > \varepsilon$. 


## 2

First consider the bounded case where $m(E) < \infty$.

$E$ is measurable $\iff$ for every $\varepsilon$ there exist $F_\varepsilon \subset E \subset G_\varepsilon$ with $F_\varepsilon$ closed and $G_\varepsilon$ open and $m(G_\varepsilon \setminus E)< \varepsilon$ and $m(E\setminus F_\varepsilon) < \varepsilon$.

So take the sequence $\varepsilon_n = \frac 1 n \to 0$ to produce a sequence of closed sets $F_n$ such that $m(E\setminus F_n) < \frac 1 n$ for all $n$, and let $F \definedas \union_{n}$, which is clear an $F_\sigma$ and thus Borel set.

Since $F_n \subseteq F_{n+1}$, we have $F_n \nearrow F$ and so by continuity of measure,
\begin{align*}
m(F) = \lim_n m(F_n) < \lim_n \left( \frac 1 n\right) \to 0
.\end{align*}

If $E$ is not bounded, let $E_N = B_N(0) \intersect E$ which is bounded. 
Then $E_N \nearrow E$, and for each $N$ we can find an $F_N$ by the previous case such that $m(E_N \setminus F_N) = 0$.

So take $F \definedas \union_N F_N$ so $F_N \nearrow F$.
Then 
$$
E_N \setminus F_N \nearrow E\setminus F \implies m(E\setminus F) = \lim_N m(E_N\setminus F_N) = 0
.$$

## 3

\begin{align*}
\dd{}{t} F(t) 
&= \dd{}{t} \int_\RR f(x) \cos(xt) ~dx \\
&\overset{DCT}= \int_\RR f(x) \dd{}{t} \cos(xt) ~dx \\
&= \int_\RR xf(x) \cos(xt)~dx
,\end{align*}

so it only remains to justify the DCT.

Fix $t$, then let $t_n \to t$ be any sequence.
Then
\begin{align*}
\dd{}{t} \cos(tx) 
&\definedas \lim_{t_n \to t} \frac{\cos(tx) - \cos(t_n x)}{t_n - t} \\
&\overset{MVT} = \dd{}{t}\cos(tx)\mid_{t  = \xi_n} \quad \text{for some } \xi_n \in [t, t_n] \text{ or } [t_n, t] \\
&= x\sin(\xi_n x)
.\end{align*}

So we can define 
$$
h_n(x, t) = f(x)
\left(\frac{\cos(tx) - \cos(t_n x)}{t_n - t}\right)
$$

and note that $h_n \to \dd{}{t} \left[ f(x) \cos(xt) \right]$ pointwise.

We then have $\abs{h_n} = \abs{f(x) x\sin(\xi_n x)} \leq \abs{xf(x)}$ for every $n$ by the above argument, and since $g(x) \definedas xf(x) \in L^1(\RR)$ by assumption, the DCT can be applied.

## 4

> ???

Apparently "easy" part: let $f(x) = \chi_{[0, \pi]}$, then $\int_\RR f(x) \abs{\sin(nx)} = \int_0^\pi \abs{\sin(nx)} = 2$, and so $\int_0^1 \abs{\sin(nx)} = \frac 2 \pi$, none of which depend on $n$.

Now approximate $f$ by step functions.

## 5

> ???