# Fall 2017

## 1. 

Suppose the group $G$ acts on the set $A$. 
Assume this action is faithful (recall that this means that the kernel of the homomorphism from $G$ to $\sym(A)$ which gives the action is trivial) and transitive (for all $a, b$ in $A$, there exists $g$ in $G$ such that $g \cdot a = b$.)

(a) For $a \in A$, let $G_a$ denote the stabilizer of $a$ in $G$. 
Prove that for any $a \in A$, 
$$
\intersect_{\sigma\in G} \sigma G_a \sigma\inv = \theset{1}
.$$

(b) Suppose that $G$ is abelian. Prove that $|G| = |A|$. Deduce that every abelian transitive subgroup of $S_n$ has order $n$.

## 2.

(a) Classify the abelian groups of order 36.

For the rest of the problem, assume that $G$ is a non-abelian group of order 36. 

> You may assume that the only subgroup of order 12 in $S_4$ is $A_4$ and that $A_4$ has no subgroup of order 6.

(b) Prove that if the 2-Sylow subgroup of $G$ is normal, $G$ has a normal subgroup $N$ such that $G/N$ is isomorphic to $A_4$.

(c) Show that if $G$ has a normal subgroup $N$ such that $G/N$ is isomorphic to $A_4$ and a subgroup $H isomorphic to $A_4$ it must be the direct product of $N$ and $H$.

(d) Show that the dihedral group of order 36 is a non-abelian group of order 36 whose Sylow-2 subgroup is not normal.

## 3. 

Let $F$ be a field. Let $f(x)$ be an irreducible polynomial in $F[x]$ of degree $n$ and let $g(x)$
be any polynomial in $F[x]$. Let $p(x)$ be an irreducible factor (of degree $m$) of the polynomial $f(g(x))$.

Prove that $n$ divides $m$. Use this to prove that if $r$ is an integer which is not a perfect square, and $n$ is a positive integer then every irreducible factor of $x^{2n} - r$ over $\QQ[x]$ has even degree.

## 4.

(a) Let $f (x)$ be an irreducible polynomial of degree 4 in $\QQ[x]$ whose splitting field $K$ over $\QQ$ has Galois group $G = S_4$. 

    Let $\theta$ be a root of $f(x)$. Prove that $\QQ[\theta]$ is an extension of $\QQ$ of degree 4 and that there are no intermediate fields between $\QQ$ and $\QQ[\theta]$.

(b) Prove that if $K$ is a Galois extension of $\QQ$ of degree 4, then there is an intermediate subfield between $K$ and $\QQ$.

## 5.  

A ring R is called *simple* if its only two-sided ideals are $0$ and $R$.

(a) Suppose $R$ is a commutative ring with 1. Prove $R$ is simple if and only if $R$ is a field.

(b) Let $k$ be a field. Show the ring $M_n (k)$, $n \times n$ matrices with entries in $k$, is a simple ring.

## 6.  

For a ring $R$, let $U(R)$ denote the multiplicative group of units in $R$. Recall that in an integral domain $R$, $r \in R$ is called *irreducible* if $r$ is not a unit in R, and the only divisors of $r$ have the form $ru$ with $u$ a unit in $R$. 

We call a non-zero, non-unit $r \in R$ *prime* in $R$ if $r \divides ab \implies r \divides a$ or $r \divides b$. 
Consider the ring $R = \{a + b \sqrt{-5}\suchthat a, b \in Z\}$.

(a) Prove $R$ is an integral domain.

(b) Show $U(R) = \{\pm1\}$.

(c) Show $3, 2 + \sqrt{-5}$, and $2 - \sqrt{-5}$ are irreducible in $R$.

(d) Show 3 is not prime in $R$.

(e) Conclude $R$ is not a PID.

## 7. 
Let $F$ be a field and let $V$ and $W$ be vector spaces over $F$ . 

Make $V$ and $W$ into $F[x]\dash$modules via linear operators $T$ on $V$ and $S$ on $W$ by defining $X \cdot v = T (v)$ for all $v \in V$ and $X \cdot w = S(w)$ for all w $\in$ W . 

Denote the resulting $F[x]\dash$modules by $V_T$ and $W_S$ respectively.

(a) Show that an $F[x]\dash$module homomorphism from $V_T$ to $W_S$ consists of an $F\dash$linear transformation $R : V \to W$ such that $RT = SR$.

(b) Show that $VT \cong WS$ as $F[x]\dash$modules $\iff$ there is an $F\dash$linear isomorphism $P : V \to W$ such that $T = P\inv SP$.

(c) Recall that a module $M$ is *simple* if $M \neq 0$ and any proper submodule of $M$ must be zero. Suppose that $V$ has dimension 2. Give an example of $F$, $T$ with $V_T$ simple.

(d) Assume $F$ is algebraically closed. Prove that if $V$ has dimension 2, then any $V_T$ is not simple.
