# Fall 2018

## 1.

Let $G$ be a finite group whose order is divisible by a prime number $p$.
Let $P$ be a normal $p\dash$subgroup of $G$
(so $\abs P = p^c$ for some $c$).

(a) Show that $P$ is contained in every Sylow $p\dash$subgroup of $G$.

(b) Let $M$ be a maximal proper subgroup of $G$. Show that either $P \subseteq M$ or $|G/M | = p^b$ for some $b \leq c$.

## 2.

(a) Suppose the group $G$ acts on the set $X$ . Show that the stabilizers of elements in the same orbit are conjugate.

(b) Let $G$ be a finite group and let $H$ be a proper subgroup. Show that the union of the conjugates of $H$ is strictly smaller than $G$, i.e.
$$
\union_{g\in G} gHg\inv \subsetneq G
$$

(c) Suppose $G$ is a finite group acting transitively on a set $S$ with at least 2 elements. Show that there is an element of $G$ with no fixed points in $S$.

## 3.

Let $F \subset K \subset L$ be finite degree field extensions.
For each of the following assertions, give a proof or a counterexample.

(a) If $L/F$ is Galois, then so is $K/F$.

(b) If $L/F$ is Galois, then so is $L/K$.

(c) If $K/F$ and $L/K$ are both Galois, then so is $L/F$.

##  4.

Let $V$ be a finite dimensional vector space over a field (the field is not necessarily algebraically closed).

Let $\phi : V \to V$ be a linear transformation. Prove that there exists a decomposition of $V$ as $V = U \oplus W$ , where $U$ and $W$ are $\phi\dash$invariant subspaces of $V$ , $\restrictionof{\phi}{U}$ is nilpotent, and $\restrictionof{\phi}{W}$ is nonsingular.

## 5.

Let $A$ be an $n \times n$ matrix.

(a) Suppose that $v$ is a column vector such that the set $\{v, Av, . . . , A^{n-1} v\}$ is linearly independent. Show that any matrix $B$ that commutes with $A$ is a polynomial in $A$.

(b) Show that there exists a column vector $v$ such that the set $\{v, Av, . . . , A^{n-1} v\}$ is linearly independent $\iff$ the characteristic polynomial of A equals the minimal polynomial of A.

## 6.

Let $R$ be a commutative ring, and let $M$ be an $R\dash$module. 
An $R\dash$submodule $N$ of $M$ is maximal if there is no $R\dash$module $P$ with $N \subsetneq P \subsetneq M$.

(a) Show that an $R\dash$submodule $N$ of $M$ is maximal $\iff M /N$ is a simple $R\dash$module: i.e., $M /N$ is nonzero and has no proper, nonzero $R\dash$submodules.

(b) Let $M$ be a $\ZZ\dash$module. Show that a $\ZZ\dash$submodule $N$ of $M$ is maximal $\iff \#M /N$ is a prime number.

(c) Let $M$ be the $\ZZ\dash$module of all roots of unity in $\CC$ under multiplication.
Show that there is no maximal $\ZZ\dash$submodule of $M$.

## 7.

Let $R$ be a commutative ring.

(a) Let $r \in R$. Show that the map
\begin{align*}
r\bullet : R &\to R \\
x &\mapsto r x
.\end{align*}
is an $R\dash$module endomorphism of $R$.

(b) We say that $r$ is a **zero-divisor** if r$\bullet$ is not injective.
Show that if $r$ is a zero-divisor and $r \neq 0$, then the kernel and image of $R$ each consist of zero-divisors.

(c) Let $n \geq 2$ be an integer. Show: if $R$ has exactly $n$ zero-divisors, then $\#R \leq n^2$ .

(d) Show that up to isomorphism there are exactly two commutative rings $R$ with precisely 2 zero-divisors.

> You may use without proof the following fact: every ring of order 4 is isomorphic to exactly one of the
following:
$$
\frac{ \ZZ }{ 4\ZZ}, \quad
\frac{ \frac{  \ZZ }{ 2\ZZ} [t]}{(t^2 + t + 1)}, \quad
\frac{ \frac{ \ZZ }{ 2\ZZ} [t]}{ (t^2 - t)}, \quad
\frac{ \frac{ \ZZ}{2\ZZ}[t]}{(t^2 )}
.$$


