# Fall 2019

## 1

Let $G$ be a finite group with $n$ distinct conjugacy classes.
Let $g_1 \cdots g_n$ be representatives of the conjugacy classes of $G$.

Prove that if $g_i g_j = g_j g_i$ for all $i, j$ then $G$ is abelian.

## 2

Let $G$ be a group of order 105 and let $P, Q, R$ be Sylow 3, 5, 7 subgroups respectively.

(a) Prove that at least one of $Q$ and $R$ is normal in $G$.

(b) Prove that $G$ has a cyclic subgroup of order 35.

(c) Prove that both $Q$ and $R$ are normal in $G$.

(d) Prove that if $P$ is normal in $G$ then $G$ is cyclic.

## 3

Let $R$ be a ring with the property that for every $a \in R, a^2 = a$.

(a) Prove that $R$ has characteristic 2.

(b) Prove that $R$ is commutative.

## 4

Let $F$ be a finite field with $q$ elements.

Let $n$ be a positive integer relatively prime to $q$ and let $\omega$ be a primitive $n$th root of unity in an extension field of $F$.

Let $E = F [\omega]$ and let $k = [E : F]$.

(a) Prove that $n$ divides $q^{k}-1$.

(b) Let $m$ be the order of $q$ in $\ZZ/n\ZZ$.
Prove that $m$ divides $k$.

(c) Prove that $m = k$.

## 5

Let $R$ be a ring and $M$ an $R\dash$module.

> Recall that the set of torsion elements in M is defined by
$$
\Tor(m) = \{m \in M \suchthat \exists r \in R, ~r \neq 0, ~rm = 0\}
.$$

(a) Prove that if $R$ is an integral domain, then $\Tor(M )$ is a submodule of $M$ .

(b) Give an example where $\Tor(M )$ is not a submodule of $M$.

(c) If $R$ has zero-divisors, prove that every non-zero $R\dash$module has non-zero torsion elements.

## 6

Let $R$ be a commutative ring with multiplicative identity. Assume Zorn's Lemma.

(a) Show that
$$
N = \{r \in R \mid r^n = 0 \text{ for some } n > 0\}
$$
is an ideal which is contained in any prime ideal.

(b) Let $r$ be an element of $R$ not in $N$.
Let $S$ be the collection of all proper ideals of $R$ not containing any positive power of $r$. Use Zorn's Lemma to prove that
there is a prime ideal in $S$.

(c) Suppose that $R$ has exactly one prime ideal $P$ . Prove that every element $r$ of $R$ is either nilpotent or a unit.

## 7

Let $\zeta_n$ denote a primitive $n$th root of 1 $\in \QQ$.
You may assume the roots of the minimal polynomial $p_n(x)$ of $\zeta_n$ are exactly the primitive $n$th roots of 1.

Show that the field extension $\QQ(\zeta_n )$ over $\QQ$ is Galois and prove its Galois group is $(\ZZ/n\ZZ)\units$.

How many subfields are there of $\QQ(\zeta_{20} )$?


## 8

Let $\{e_1, \cdots, e_n \}$ be a basis of a real vector space $V$ and let
$$
\Lambda \definedas \theset{ \sum r_i e_i \mid ri \in \ZZ}
$$

Let $\cdot$ be a non-degenerate ($v \cdot w = 0$ for all $w \in V \iff v = 0$) symmetric bilinear form on V such that the Gram matrix $M = (e_i \cdot e_j )$ has integer entries.

Define the dual of $\Lambda$ to be

$$
\Lambda \dual \definedas \{v \in V \suchthat v \cdot x \in \ZZ \text{ for all } x \in \Lambda
\}
.$$

(a) Show that $\Lambda \subset \Lambda \dual$.

(b) Prove that $\det M \neq 0$ and that the rows of $M\inv$ span $\Lambda\dual$.

(c) Prove that $\det M = |\Lambda\dual /\Lambda|$.



