# Fall 2018

## 1

### a

We know that every $p\dash$subgroup is contained in some Sylow $p\dash$subgroup, so $P \subseteq S_p^i$ for some $S_p^i \in \mathrm{Syl}_p(G)$.

Since $P$ is normal in $G$, we have $gPg\inv = P$ for all $g\in G$.

If $S_p^j$ is any other Sylow $p\dash$subgroup, we have $gS_p^i g\inv = S_p^j$ for some $g\in G$.

But then $P = gPg\inv \subseteq gS_p^i g\inv = S_p^j$.

### b

Suppose $P$ is not contained in $M$; then $M < MP$ is a proper subgroup, and by maximality of $M$, $MP = G$.

We can then write
\begin{align*}
G = MP
&\implies \abs{G} = \frac{\abs{M} \abs{P}}{\abs{M\intersect P}} \\ \\
&\implies \abs{M\intersect P} \abs{G} = \abs{M} \abs{P} \\ \\
&(?) \implies \abs{G} \text{ divides } \abs{M} \abs{P} \\ \\
&\implies \abs{G} / \abs{M} \text{ divides } \abs{P}
.\end{align*}


## 2

### a

> - $G_a = \mathrm{Stab}_G(a) = \theset{g\in G \suchthat g\actson a = a}$
> - $G_b = \mathrm{Stab}_G(b) = \theset{g\in G \suchthat g\actson b = b}$
> - $G\cdot x = \mathcal O_x = \theset{g\actson x \suchthat g\in G}$

Suppose $a,b \in X$ where $a \in G\cdot b$, so they belong to the same orbit.
Then $a = h\actson b$ for some $h\in G$.

Then
\begin{align*}
g\in G_a 
\iff g\actson a &= a \\
\iff g \actson (h\actson b) &= h\actson b \\
\iff gh \actson b &= h\actson b \\
\iff h\inv gh \actson b &= b \\
\iff h\inv g h &\in G_b
,\end{align*}

so $g\in G_a \iff hgh\inv \in G_b$ and so the stabilizers of any two elements in the same orbit are conjugate.

### b

Suppose $\abs{H} = n$ and thus $\abs{G} = nm$ for some $m = [G: H] \geq 2$ by Lagrange since $H$ is proper.

Let $G$ act on its subgroups by conjugation, 

- The orbit $G\cdot H$ is the set of all conjugate subgroups, and

- The stabilizer of $H$ is $G_H = N_G(H)$.

By orbit-stabilizer,
\begin{align*}
G\cdot H = [G: G_H] = [G: N_G(H)]
.\end{align*}

Let $\abs H = n$, and note that all conjugate subgroups have the same order.

Then
\begin{align*}
H \leq N_G(H) 
&\implies [G: N_G(H)] \leq [G: H] = m
.\end{align*}

and each conjugate contains the identity element, so

\begin{align*}
\union_{g\in G} gHg\inv &
\leq 1 + \sum_{H' \in G\cdot H} \left( \abs{H'} - 1 \right) \\
&= 1 + \sum_{H' \in G\cdot H} n - 1 \\
&= 1 + (n-1) \abs{G\cdot H} \\
&= 1 + (n-1) [G: N_G(H)] \\
&\leq 1 + (n-1) [G: H] \\
&= 1 + (n-1) m\\
&= 1 + nm - m \\
&= 1  + \abs{G} - m \\
&= \abs{G} - (m-1) \\
&\leq \abs{G} - 1 \quad \text{since } m \geq 2\\
&< \abs G
.\end{align*}

> Todo: not an ideal proof. Doesn't use the first part..?

### c

Noting that $G\actson S$ transitively iff there is only one orbit and $\abs {S/G} = 1$, by Burnside's lemma we have
\begin{align*}
1 = \abs{S/G} = \frac{1}{\abs G} \sum_{g\in G} \abs{S^g} \implies \abs{G} = \sum_{g\in G} \abs{S^g}
\end{align*}

where $S^g = \theset{s\in S \suchthat g\actson s = s ~\forall g\in G}$.

We can now note that $S^e = S$ and so $\abs{S^e} \geq 2$, not every other term in the sum can be greater than 1.
So there is some $g$ such that $\abs{S^g} = 0$, so $g$ has no fixed points.

$\qed$

## 3

Let $L/K/F$.

### a

**False**: 
Take $L/K/F = \QQ(\zeta_2, \sqrt[3] 2) \to \QQ(\sqrt[3] 2) \to \QQ$.

Then $L/F$ is Galois, since it is the splitting field of $x^3 - 2$ and $\QQ$ has characteristic zero.

But $K/F$ is not Galois, since it is not the splitting field of any irreducible polynomial.

### b

**True**: 
If $L/F$ is Galois, then $L/K$ is normal and separable:

- $L/K$ is normal, since if $\sigma: L \injects \overline K$ lifts the identity on $K$ and fixes $L$, i-t also lifts the identity on $F$ and fixes $L$ (and $\overline K = \overline F$).

- $L/K$ is separable, since $F[x] \subseteq K[x]$, and so if $\alpha \in L$ where $f(x) \definedas \min(\alpha, F)$ has no repeated factors, then $f'(x) \definedas \min(\alpha, K)$ divides $f$ and thus can not have repeated factors.

### c

**False**: 
Use the fact that every quadratic extension is Galois, and take $L/K/F = \QQ(\sqrt[4] 2) \to \QQ(\sqrt 2) \to \QQ$.

Then each successive extension is quadratic (thus Galois) but $\QQ(\sqrt[4] 2)$ is not the splitting field of any polynomial (noting that it does not split $x^4 - 2$ completely.)

## 4

Let $m(x)$ be the minimal polynomial of $\phi$.
If the polynomial $f(x) = x$ doesn't divide $m$, then $f$ does not have zero as an eigenvalue, so $\phi$ is nonsingular and since $0$ is nilpotent, $\phi + 0$ works.

Otherwise, write $\phi(x) = x^m \rho(x)$ where $\gcd(x, \rho(x)) = 1$.

Then
\begin{align*}
V \cong \frac{k[x]}{m(x)} \cong \frac{k[x]}{(x^m)} \oplus \frac{k[x]}{(\rho)}
\definedas U \oplus W
\end{align*}
by the Chinese Remainder theorem.

We can now note that $\restrictionof{\phi}{U}$ is nilpotent because it has characteristic polynomial $x^m$, and $\restrictionof{\phi}{W}$ is nonsingular since $\lambda = 0$ is not an eigenvalue by construction.

## 5

### a

Letting $\vector v$ be fixed, since $\theset{A^j \vector v}$ spans $V$ we have 
\begin{align*}
B\vector v = \sum_{j=0}^{n-1}c_j A^j \vector v
.\end{align*}

So let $p(x) = \sum_{j=0}^{n-1}c_jx^j$.
Then consider how $B$ acts on any basis vector $A^k \vector v$.

We have 
\begin{align*}
BA^k \vector v 
&= A^k B\vector v \\
&= A^k p(A) \vector v \\
&= p(A) A^k \vector v
,\end{align*}

so $B = p(A)$ as operators since their actions agree on every basis vector in $V$.

### b

$\implies$:

If $\theset{A^j \vector v_k \suchthat 0\leq j \leq n-1}$ is linearly independent, this means that $A$ does satisfy any polynomial of degree $d < n$.

So $\deg m_A(x) = n$, and since $m_A(x)$ divides $\chi_A(x)$ and both are monic degree polynomials of degree $n$, they must be equal.

$\impliedby$:

Let $A\actson k[x]$ by $A \actson p(x) \definedas p(A)$.
This induces an invariant factor decomposition $V =\cong \bigoplus k[x]/(f_i)$.
Since the product of the invariant factors is the characteristic polynomial, the largest invariant factor is the minimal polynomial, and these two are equal, there can only be one invariant factor and thus the invariant factor decomposition is
$$
V\cong \frac{k[x]}{(\chi_A(x))}
$$
as an isomorphism of $k[x]\dash$modules.

So $V$ is a cyclic $k[x]$ module, which means that $V = k[x]\actson \vector v$ for some $\vector v\in V$ such that $\ann(\vector v) = \chi_A(x)$.

> I.e. there is some element $\vector v\in V$ whose orbit is all of $V$.

But then noting that monomials span $k[x]$, we can write
\begin{align*}
V &\cong
k[x] \actson \vector v \\
&\definedas \theset{f(x) \actson \vector v \suchthat f \in k[x]} \\
&= \spanof_k \theset{x^k \actson \vector v \suchthat k \geq 0} \\
&\definedas \spanof_k \theset{A^k\vector v \suchthat k \geq 0}
.\end{align*}

Moreover, we can note that if $k \geq \deg \chi_A(x)$, then $A^k$ is a linear combination of $\theset{A^j \mid 0 \leq j \leq n-1}$, and so
\begin{align*}
V &\cong \spanof_k \theset{A^k\vector v \suchthat k \geq 0} \\
&= \spanof_k \theset{A^k\vector v \suchthat 1 \leq k \leq n-1}
.\end{align*}

$\qed$

## 6

### a

By the correspondence theorem, submodules of $M/N$ biject with submodules $A$ of $M$ containing $N$.

So 

- $M$ is maximal:

- $\iff$ no such (proper, nontrivial) submodule $A$ exists 

- $\iff$ there are no (proper, nontrivial) submodules of $M/N$ 

- $\iff M/N$ is simple.

### b

Identify $\ZZ\dash$modules with abelian groups, then by (a), $N$ is maximal $\iff$ $M/N$ is simple $\iff$ $M/N$ has no nontrivial proper subgroups.

By Cauchy's theorem, if $\abs{M/N} = ab$ is a composite number, then $a\divides ab \implies$ there is an element (and thus a subgroup) of order $a$.
In this case, $M/N$ contains a nontrivial proper cyclic subgroup, so $M/N$ is not simple.
So $\abs{M/N}$ can not be composite, and therefore must be prime.

### c

Let $G = \theset{x \in \CC \suchthat x^n=1 \text{ for some }n\in \NN}$, and suppose $H < G$ is a proper subgroup.

Then there must be a prime $p$ such that the $\zeta_{p^k} \not \in H$ for all $k$ greater than some constant $m$ -- otherwise, we can use the fact that if $\zeta_{p^k} \in H$ then $\zeta_{p^\ell} \in H$ for all $\ell \leq k$, and if $\zeta_{p^k} \in H$ for all $p$ and all $k$ then $H = G$.

But this means there are infinitely many elements in $G\setminus H$, and so $\infty = [G: H] = \abs{G/H}$ is not a prime. 
Thus by (b), $H$ can not be maximal, a contradiction.

$\qed$


## 7

### a

Let $\phi$ denote the map in question, it suffices to show that $\phi$ is $R\dash$linear, i.e. $\phi(s\vector x + \vector y) = s\phi(\vector x) + \phi(\vector y)$:

\begin{align*}
\phi(s\vector x + \vector y) 
&= r(s\vector x + \vector y) \\
&= rs\vector x + r\vector y \\
&= s(r\vector x) + (r\vector y) \\
&= s\phi(\vector x) + \phi(\vector y)
.\end{align*}

### b

We identify $\ker \phi = \theset{x\in R \suchthat rx = 0}$, and since $r\neq 0$ by assumption, this implies each such $x$ is a zero divisor by definition (and $\ker \phi$ is nonempty by assumption).

Similarly, we identify $\im \phi = \theset{y = rx \suchthat x\in R}$. 
So let $y\in \im \phi$.
Since $r$ is a zero divisor, there exists some $z\in R$ such that $rz = 0$.

But then 
$$
yz = rxz = xrz = 0z2
$$ 
since $R$ is commutative, so $y$ is a zero divisor.


### c

> See 1964 Annals "Properties of rings with a finite number of zero divisors"

Let $Z \definedas \theset{z_i}_{i=1}^n$ be the set of $n$ zero divisors in $R$.
Let $\phi_i$ be the $n$ maps $x \mapsto z_i x$, and let $K_i = \ker \phi_i$ be the corresponding kernels.

Fix an $i$.
By (b), $K_i$ consists of zero divisors, so 
$$
\abs{K_i} \leq n < \infty \quad \text{for each } i
.$$

Now consider $R/K_i \definedas \theset{r + K_i}$.
By the first isomorphism theorem, $R/K_i \cong \im \phi$, and by (b) every element in the image is a zero divisor, so 
$$
[R: K_i] = \abs{R/K_i} = \abs{\im \phi_i} \leq n < \infty
.$$

But then 
$$
\abs{R} = [R:K_i]\abs{K_i} \leq (n)(n) = n^2 < \infty
.$$

### d

By (c), if there are exactly 2 zero divisors then $\abs{R} \leq 4$.
Since every element in a finite ring is either a unit or a zero divisor, and $\abs{R\units} \geq 2$ since $\pm 1$ are always units, we must have $\abs{R} = 4$.

Since the characteristic of a ring must divide its size, we have $\ch R = 2$ or $4$.

Using the hint, we see that only $\ZZ/(4)$ has characteristic 4, which has exactly 2 zero divisors given by $[0]_4$ and $[2]_4$.

If $R$ has characteristic 2, we can check the other 3 possibilities.

We can write $\ZZ/(2)[t]/(t^2) = \theset{a + bt \suchthat a,b\in \ZZ/(2)}$, and checking the multiplication table we have

\begin{align*}
\begin{array}{c|cccc}
			& 0 & 1 	& t & 1+t 	\\ \hline
0 		& 0 & 0 	& 0 & 0   	\\ 
1 		& 0 & 1 	& t & 1+t 	\\ 
t 		& 0 & t 	& \mathbf{0} & t   	\\ 
1 + t & 0 & 1+t & t & 1   	\\ 
\end{array}
,\end{align*}

and so we find that $t, 0$ are the zero divisors.

In $\ZZ/(2)[t]/(t^2 - t)$, we can check that $t^2 = t \implies t t^2 = t^2 \implies t(t^2 + 1) = 0 \implies t(t+1) = 0$, so both $t$ and $t+1$ are zero divisors, along with zero, so this is not a possibility.

Similarly, in $\ZZ/(2)[t]/(t^2 + t + 1)$, we can check the bottom-right corner of the multiplication table to find
\begin{align*}
\left[\begin{array}{c|cc}
	& t 	& 1 +t \\ \hline
t & 1+t & 1 \\
t & 1 	& t \\
\end{array}\right]
,\end{align*}

and so this ring only has one zero divisor.

Thus the only possibilities are:

\begin{align*}
R &\cong \ZZ/(4) \\
R &\cong \ZZ/(2)[t] / (t^2)
.\end{align*}

$\qed$